Add blog post for intuitive code search on sourcegraph.com (#217)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/more-intuitive-code-search-on-sourcegraph-dot-com.md

---
title: "Search the top 10,000 open source repositories on Sourcegraph.com"

> description: "How a hack week project made Sourcegraph.com easier to use, by searching the top 10k open source repositories on GitHub by default."

Reviewer: You mention hack week in the description but there is no mention of this in the body. I would remove this from the description or discuss it in the body.

Reviewer 2: Agreed and removed.

author: Issac Trotts, Software Engineer at Sourcegraph
publishDate: 2019-08-16T00:00-11:55
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: Search-the-top-10000-open-source-repositories-Sourcegraph-com
heroImage: /blog/sourcegraph-com-usage.png
published: true
---

<p style="text-align: center">
  <img src="/blog/sourcegraph-com-usage.png" alt="My top feature request is: no new features. Just fix what's broken">
  <br/><small>Sourcegraph.com stats as of August 2019</small>
</p>

> Wouldn't it be awesome if you could review, browse, and search code from the top ten thousand open source repositories on GitHub? You can, using [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com), and we've now made it easier to use!

Reviewer: This makes me think that I can only review and browse code from the top 10k repos (which isn't true).

It is also currently phrased in a way that all this was already possible before and it is now easier (which doesn't seem accurate).

Reviewer 2: Changed wording in https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/217/commits/11115708c045a6edd7062929380851f0b7e57388 to "Wouldn't it be awesome if you could scope a code search to find usage examples from the top ten thousand open source repositories on GitHub*"

## Using Sourcegraph.com like a regular search engine

> [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) indexes over 4 million open source repositories on GitHub! The only problem, was that a [`repo` filter](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/queries) was required to narrow the repository set to a manageable number, the downside of which, meant you had to know what repositories to search. This meant [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) was missing out on a key use case⁠—random usage discovery.

Reviewer 2: Thanks! Updated in https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/217/commits/235d6b60554d00375b6f750e98de9252fad4999b

> Let's say you've recently heard about Google's [Distroless container image](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless), and are curious about its usage. Previously, without specifying any repsoitories, your search would've returned this:

Reviewer: @ryan-blunden I think we should have an automated spell checker like https://github.com/liamzdenek/go-spellcheck

```suggestion
Let's say you've recently heard about Google's [Distroless container image](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless), and are curious about its usage. Previously, without specifying any repositories, your search would've returned this:
```

Reviewer 2: Added https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/issues/221

![](/blog/too-many-matching-repos.png)

> After some [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) specific code and infrastructure changes, Sourcegraph (by default), will now search the top 10,000 open source repositories from GitHub (ordered by watch count) if a [`repo` filter](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/queries) was not provided. This means a query for a [distroless based Dockerfile](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+FROM+gcr.io/distroless) now returns a useful set of results to explore.

Reviewer: potential neat improvement: link to actually PRs in "specific code and infrastructure changes".

Reviewer 2: Cool idea! I've added links to [#4959](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/4959/files) and [#5062](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/5062/files) as they seem to be the PRs worth highlighting.

@ijt Do I miss PRs?

Author: Those are the ones.

![](/blog/distroless-image-results.png)

## Sourcegraph.com as a research and usage discovery tool

This exposes a huge amount of code discovery possibilities, such as examples of [Python's Pipenv within Dockerfiles](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=pipenv+f:Dockerfile):

![](/blog/pipenv-search.png)

Or how developers are using [React in Typescript](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=react%5C.+lang:typescript):

![](/blog/react-typescript-search.png)

We're excited by the increased discoverability of code on [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) for languages, packages, libraries, and frameworks. There is also the added benefit of [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) working for a first time user (when they don't necesssarily know the [`repo` filter](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/queries) exists).

Here are some additional searches:

- [Find code written by or inspired by Donald Knuth](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=knuth)
- [Learn about blockchain](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=blockchain)

> - [Find code about deep learning](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=%22deep+learning%22)

Reviewer: These don't feel like the strongest examples to me. If I really want to learn about "blockchain", "deep learning", or "dynamic programming" do you think someone is really going to type those terms into Sourcegraph? Do you think the returned results actually help someone learn about those topics? I would probably want to learn about these topics through other sources and then identify specific code projects to browse.

The alternative I would suggest is searches for code examples (as mentioned in a previous review comment).

Reviewer 2: Different examples added and will review with the team and add/update/replace as we go, but don't want this to block publishing unless they are truly bad examples.

Author: @nick, I typed those things into Sourcegraph because I thought it would be interesting to find out which projects use them or at least mention them. Then I could have a look at what they're doing with those ideas. 

What do you think would be stronger examples?

@ryan-blunden, here are some other things we could mention as possible searches:

"duff's device"
trampoline
"fixed-point combinator"
"packrat parsing"

Reviewer: @ijt See this comment: https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/217#discussion_r314922475

It looks like Ryan already updated the examples in the PR and I think the ones he added are nice.

- [See examples of dynamic programming](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=%22dynamic+programming%22)

## Want to help us build the ultimate open source code search engine?

> We are a small, remote first, distributed team of mostly engineers who love to code. Technologies that we use: Go, TypeScript, React, RxJS, GraphQL, Docker + Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Does "remote first" and "distributed team" feel redundant?

Reviewer 2: Yes, removed.

![](/blog/distroless-image-results.png)

## Sourcegraph.com as a research and usage discovery tool

Let's explore some research and usage possibilities, such as examples of [Python's Pipenv within Dockerfiles](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=pipenv+f:Dockerfile):

![](/blog/pipenv-search.png)

Or how developers are using [React in Typescript](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=react%5C.+lang:typescript):

![](/blog/react-typescript-search.png)

We're excited by the increased discoverability of code on [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) for languages, packages, libraries, and frameworks. There is also the added benefit of [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) working for a first time user (when they don't necessarily know the [`repo` filter](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/queries) exists).

Here are some additional searches:

 - [Dockerfile's for Python Flask apps using uwsgi](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+%5EFROM%5Cs%2Bpython%5C:+uwsgi+flask+count:25)

>  - [TypeScript examples using `tap` from RxJS](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=lang:typescript+rxjs+tap%5C%28+count:25)

Author: I had trouble finding this like this, but got results with `"tap(val =>" index:only`.

Reviewer: None of these links appear to actually work right now. Is indexing disabled?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/754768/63306825-163b0280-c2a1-11e9-9af5-7fde5d6e3b29.png)

Reviewer 2: That's been fixed, thanks!

Author: I turned it off by setting maxReposToSearch=50 after chatting with Keegan a bit about the poor performance we observed today on several queries. Apparently it's been falling back on searcher for some repos even though I see over 10k index files in /data on the indexer. Running the queries with `index:only` gives fast results, so I'm working on making that the default, as [suggested by Keegan](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/CHEKCRWKV/p1566250606138800?thread_ts=1566248349.136900&cid=CHEKCRWKV). Here is the issue: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/5301.

---
title: "Search the top 10,000 open source repositories on Sourcegraph.com"

> description: "How Sourcegraph.com became easier to use, by setting the default search scope to the top ten thousand open source repositories on GitHub."

Reviewer: minor nit: can we be consistent about "10,000" and "ten thousand"? (I think 10,000 pops more)

Reviewer 2: Ok, will change to be 10,000.

author: Issac Trotts, Software Engineer at Sourcegraph
publishDate: 2019-08-16T00:00-11:55
tags: [
 blog
]
slug: Search-the-top-10000-open-source-repositories-Sourcegraph-com
heroImage: /blog/sourcegraph-com-usage.png
published: true
---

<p style="text-align: center">
 <img src="/blog/sourcegraph-com-usage.png" />
 <br/><small>Sourcegraph.com stats as of August 2019</small>
</p>

> Wouldn't it be awesome if you could scope a code search to find usage examples from the top ten thousand open source repositories on GitHub? You can, using [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com), and we've now made it easier to use!

Reviewer: What do you think about making this a declarative statement that summarizes the post?

```suggestion
[Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) can now search across the top 10,000 open source repositories on GitHub so you can find usage examples of popular projects.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't have a strong opinion here and your version reads better so sounds good!

## Using Sourcegraph.com like a regular search engine

[Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) has always allowed developers to browse any open source repository from GitHub, but it wasn't possible to perform a search without adding a `repo` filter to limit the number of repositories that needed to be searched (private Sourcegraph instances don't have this limitation). This meant [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) was missing a crucial use case—finding usage examples for a library, class, method, or function, from a set or reputable, and predefined open source repositories.

Let's say you've recently heard about Google's [Distroless container image](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless), and are curious about its usage. Previously, without specifying any repositories, your search would've returned this:

![](/blog/too-many-matching-repos.png)

After some [Sourcegraph.com](https://sourcegraph.com) specific code changes ([#4959](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/4959/files) and [#5062](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/5062/files)

> ), Sourcegraph (by default), will now search the top 10,000 open source repositories from GitHub (ordered by watch count) if a [`repo` filter](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/search/queries) was not provided. This means a query for a [distroless based Dockerfile](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=file:Dockerfile+FROM+gcr.io/distroless) now returns a useful set of results to explore.

Reviewer: There is a newline here before the `)` that shouldn't be.

Reviewer 2: Fixed!
